feat: adds finding groups (#93)
posit-dev/connect-cookbook: 03-groups/02-finding-groups/index.qmd

---
title: 3.2 Finding Groups
---

## Problem

You want to find a subset of groups.

## Solution

:::{.panel-tabset group="language"}

## Python

> Use the `groups` attribute and use the `prefix` parameter to filter groups by group name. The prefix is case insensitive (.e.g, 'PoSiT' is logically equivalent to 'pOsIt').

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `groups` attribute and use the `prefix` parameter to filter groups by group name. The prefix is case insensitive (.e.g, "PoSiT" is logically equivalent to "pOsIt").
```

```{.python}
from posit import connect

client = connect.Client()

> groups = client.groups.find(prefix='data')

Reviewer: super-nit: standardize on double-quotes, to match our other docs etc.
```suggestion
groups = client.groups.find(prefix="data")
```

```

> The groups object is a list of groups with a name field that matches the prefix parameter. In this example, the prefix is *data*, which matches the groups name *Data Scientists* and *Data Engineers*.

Reviewer: I think this sentence should go above the body of the recipe, to explain what `"data"` means. (Before I saw this, I was writing a comment that we should use a value other than "data" as the example because it's too generic lol).

Specifically, the part that I'd put above is:

```
 In this example, the prefix is *data*, which matches groups named *Data Scientists* and *Data Engineers* on our server.
```

```suggestion
The `groups.find()` method returns a list of groups whose name matches the `prefix` parameter.
```

```{.python}
>>> import polars as pl
>>> pl.DataFrame(groups)
shape: (2, 3)
┌─────────────────────────────────┬─────────────────────────────────┬─────────────────┐
│ guid                            ┆ owner_guid                      ┆ name            │
│ ---                             ┆ ---                             ┆ ---             │
│ object                          ┆ object                          ┆ str             │
╞═════════════════════════════════╪═════════════════════════════════╪═════════════════╡
│ 6d77fcab-92b0-48a2-94fd-f80c6b… ┆ 867f6d6f-53b4-4ee6-8f37-37ce5d… ┆ Data Scientists │
│ 85d1ddff-bb05-4d3b-9f5b-37bb20… ┆ fd7b011b-7d07-4b92-8c7a-69279a… ┆ Data Engineers  │
└─────────────────────────────────┴─────────────────────────────────┴─────────────────┘
```

## R

```{.r}
# TODO
```

:::

## Discussion

> You can also use the prefix parameter to find a specific group by name if you do not know the group *guid*. Beware that multiple groups can exists with the same prefix. Please verify the group information is correct before performing additional actions.

Reviewer: What happens when multiple groups exist? Is the first one alphabetically returned without warning? (I don't know. If it's written in Go, then perhaps there is no guaranteed order.) If so, we should say so. For example:

> You can also use the prefix parameter to find a specific group by name if you do not know the group *guid*. Beware that multiple groups can exists with the same prefix. If this happens, the SDK will only return one group, without warning that multiple possible matches exist, so it's important to verify that group information is correct before performing additional actions.

Author: I tested this earlier and found that it returns in reverse numeric ordering based on the `id` on Dogfood. I haven't looked further, but it could simply be an artifact of the database or other nuanced logic. Therefore, I have no clue if the behavior is consistent across datatabases or versions of Connect. It's possible we can figure this out using the integration test suite in posit-sdk-py.

Author: ```suggestion
You can also use the prefix parameter to find a specific group by name if you do not know the group *guid*. Beware that multiple groups can exists with the same prefix. If this happens, the SDK will only return one group without warning that multiple possible matches exist. Therefore, verifying that group information is correct is important before performing additional actions.
```

Author: Should this be a warning callout?

:::{.panel-tabset group="language"}

## Python

```python
from posit import connect

client = connect.Client()

> group = client.groups.find_one(prefix='Data Scientists')

Reviewer: same nit
```suggestion
group = client.groups.find_one(prefix="Data Scientists")
```
